---
layout: post
title: "iPhone 11 Pro"
date: 2019-11-20 16:20:00 +0100
category: Reviews
tags: [iphone, review]
---

I've had the iPhone 11 Pro for about three weeks now which I think is a reasonable amount of time to form a decent opinion on the phone. I upgraded from my two year old [iPhone 8][i8], which to be fair owes me nothing and is still a great phone for any reasonable person who doesn't feel the need to upgrade on a regular basis.

The headline feature of the 11 Pro is the camera. All reviews I've read so far have had a lot of praise for it, and rightly so. It's an excellent camera. The Ultra Wide lens allows you to take photos that you wouldn't think were possible, capturing a full scene as opposed to just a frame. Night Mode is seriously impressive. Even in an almost pitch dark room it will find a way of lighting up a photo. Deep Fusion helps create incredible detail in close up photos. There is now also the ability to record 4K video, which takes up a lot of memory but looks excellent. So no surprises here, but the level of improvement over any iPhone before this is worth noting.

Coming from an iPhone 8, this is my first time using a phone with no home button or top and bottom bezels. The 11 Pro finds a nice balance in that it's just small enough that it fits well in my hand, while offering a much larger screen than before. It's noticeably smaller than last years XR and the standard 11 this year. The difference between the LCD screen of the 8 and the [OLED][oled] screen of the 11 Pro can only really be appreciated when they are side by side. Black levels are *pitch* black on an OLED screen, so much so you could be forgiven for thinking the screen is actually off in low light. 

So far the battery has been a good improvement on the iPhone 8, not an absolute night and day improvement, but a welcome one. Speaking of power, the USB-C 18W charger that's included in the box can charge the phone seriously fast [^1], and completely removes the need to charge the phone overnight (not that you should ever really do that).

The only regression with the 11 Pro I'm seeing is Face ID. The second generation Touch ID on the iPhone 8 worked instantly every time I used it. Going from that to Face ID, where you have to be facing the phone square to unlock just doesn't feel as natural to me, especially when using Apple Pay. Ideally I'd like both, but that's probably quite a bit away. 

There are of course other less noticeable improvements across the board. The processor is more than capable of handling whatever you throw at it, the speakers are as loud and clear as ever and the phone is more water resistant than ever before. 

It's only when all these improvements add up over time that you can really see how good these phones have become. If you're coming from an iPhone XS then you might be less impressed, but we've got to a point now where upgrades every year are really not necessary. The iPhone 11 Pro is a worthy upgrade for photography lovers and anyone still tapping that home button. 

[i8]:https://colm.io/2017/11/13/iphone-8
[oled]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OLED
[claim]:https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208137

[^1]: Apple [claim][claim] 50% charge in 30 minutes. That matches what I'm seeing.
