---
layout:   post
title:    "Turn it up to 11"
date:     2017-06-06 11:57:00 +0100
category: Apple
tags:     [wwdc, ios]
---

You have to hand it to Apple. This has been their best year yet - by a comfortable margin - when it comes to keeping leaks to a minimum. Previous years, we have basically known each and every new feature of iOS with maybe one or two reasonably big surprises. It's testament to the MacStories team (and Apple) that their [concept video][iosconcept] of iOS 11 on iPad has proved to be the most accurate pre-WWDC article regarding iOS 11.

Control Center has finally got the update that we've all been [waiting][controlcenter] [for][controlcenter2]: customization. For me, this is the biggest change that iOS 11 will bring to iPhone, in what is clearly an iPad focused update. 

<< INSERT IMAGE HERE>>

Control Center has been crying out for an update like this since it was introduced in iOS 7 and I'm glad to see it here. The jury is still out on the design, but I'm sure it's only a matter of getting used to it. Plus - there's more than likely gong to be a few revisions of this over the summer in the beta run.

Another change of note is a new "Do Not Disturb While Driving" mode which operates similarly to the current Do Not Disturb mode by silencing notifications and keeping the screen from waking, but also can send a message automatically to someone to let them know you can't reply right now, and uses Bluetooth and Wifi to detect when you are driving.

Add in some design changes to apps, most notably the App Store, Minor Siri improvements and Photos enhancements, and you have a relatively small update to iPhone. 

The real winner this year is iPad, thanks to three main features: Files, Dock and Drag & Drop. 

### Dock & Multitasking
This works similar to the dock on macOS. Apps and folders can be added in any order, and interestingly don't show their names once in the dock. A swipe up from any screen reveals the dock, where you can quickly jump between apps in an instant, not unlike alt-tab/command-tab. Drag an app from the dock and it will allow you to use it in its own window, or drag further to snap to either side of the screen. Drag up further from the dock to enter the new multitasking screen, which bears a strong resemblance to Mission Control on macOS. Control Center is also accessible from this screen. 

### Files & Drag/Drop

[iosconcept]:https://www.macstories.net/stories/ios-11-ipad-wishes-and-concept-video/
[controlcenter]:http://colm.io/2016/01/28/the-case-against-control-center/
[controlcenter2]:http://colm.io/2016/02/29/control-center-concept/
