---
layout: post
title: "BeatsX"
date: 2018-01-25 19:00:00 +0100
category: Review
tags: [beats, earphones]
---

I've been perfectly happy with various wired in-ear earphones for the past few years, but after buying an [iPhone 8][cmio8] late last year and spending the next few months wrestling with the [lightning-to-headphone adapter][l2h], for the sake of my own sanity I decided it was time to move to wireless.

I use earphones mainly when walking to/from work or when travelling. I don't use them for exercise, and I rarely use them for any longer than an hour at a time. I listen to podcasts mainly, so I'm not too worried about sound quality as long as sound isn't notably *bad*. What is important to me is noise cancellation and comfort.

Initially, I looked into AirPods. They are extremely small, have literally no wires and are powered by the [W1 chip][w1chip], but reports of poor noise cancellation, along with the worry that they would not stay in my ears, [^1] pushed me to look elsewhere. 

The draw of the W1 chip is what pointed me towards BeatsX. W1 makes pairing earphones to your Apple devices [stupidly easy][w1pairing]. With the BeatsX, all I had to do was turn them on and I was presented with a "Connect" button. Pressing this instantly connected them to my phone, conveniently naming them "Colm's BeatsX".

One of the unavoidable trade offs of going wireless is that there is another battery to keep an eye on, but I'm happy to report that battery life is extremely good on the BeatsX. I have been using them for over a week now and have only had to charge them once, which is easy to do as I always have a few lightning cables lying around. Beats advertise an 8 hour battery life, and "*5 Minutes of Charge = 2 Hours of Playback*",  which I would say is accurate based on my early use of the BeatsX. Whether or not that holds up in the weeks and months ahead is another story. 

They fit compfortably in my ears, and I like the fact that I can leave them dangling around my neck while I'm not using them. 

[^1]:EarPods refuse to stay in my ears, even when walking at a normal pace. As for noise cancellation - I would more often than not have them on full blast to hear podcasts cleary when outside.

[l2h]:https://www.apple.com/shop/product/MMX62AM/A/lightning-to-35-mm-headphone-jack-adapter
[cmio8]:http://colm.io/2017/11/13/iphone-8/
[w1chip]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple-designed_processors#Apple_W1
[w1pairing]:https://www.cnet.com/how-to/what-is-apple-w1-bluetooth-chip-headphones-explained/
